Referee Report 

Reviewer's Comments:

The authors present a number of new and high-quality transit observations of
the hot Jupiter WASP-4b observed by TESS. After comparing the predicted
mid-transit times (obtained only considering the pre-existing transits in the
literature) with the measured values from the TESS light curves, the authors
conclude that the TESS transits occur ~ 82 seconds earlier than predicted. They
examine different possibilities and find that the 2 most favored scenarios to
explain this deviation are orbital decay and apsidal precession. However, the
authors caution that more observations are needed to confirm these results.
Also, they redetermine various parameters of the system, finding them in
general agreement with literature values. 

* TODO: add more weight to the distant companion idea.
* ADD: our own analysis of the RV data, and the resulting implied period
  derivative.
* ADD: RV analysis emphasis (!!).

In general, the manuscript is scientifically accurate and the results presented
in it certainly will be of interest to other investigators in
the field. Then, I consider this paper worthy of being published after the
concerns described below be addressed. 

Below are my comments, beginning with the major points. I recommend the authors
take them into consideration when revising their manuscript.

-- Major points:

1) In section 3.1, the authors claim "..We included data from peer-reviewed
literature for which the analysis was based on observations of a single,
complete transit,..". However, the transits listed in Table 2 corresponding to
the epochs E=-827 (ttra= 2454697.79817; Winn et al. 2009), E=-804 (ttra=
2454728.57767; Hoyer et al. 2013), E=-537 (ttra= 2455085.88418; Dragomir et al.
2011), E=-208 (ttra= 2455526.16356; Ranjan et al. 2014) are incomplete light
curves, and those from the epochs E=-795 (2454740.62125; Hoyer et al. 2013),
E=-251 (2455468.61943; Hoyer et al. 2013) and E=21 (2455832.61815; Hoyer et al.
2013) present scarcity of after ingress/before egress data-points. On one hand,
given that several partial light curves have been included in their study, the
use of the word "complete" to indicate the characteristics of the transits in
their sample, must be avoided. 
On the other hand, at least two other transits included in their sample show
visible anomalies, probably produced by the pass of the planet in front of one
or several cold spots during transit (E=-561, ttra=2455053.76774 and E=-526,
ttra=2455100.60595, both from Sanchis-Ojeda et al. 2011). Different studies
have proven that mid transit-times measured from partial light curves (Sada et
al. 2012, Barros et al. 2013, Nikolov et al. 2015, Mancini et al. 2018) or
light curves with anomalies due to the presence of spots (Oshagh et al. 2013,
Mazeh et al. 2015, Ioannidis et al. 2016), usually present larger uncertainties
and untrustable values. Taking in consideration the conclusions of these
previous works, it is possible that the exclusion of incomplete/with anomalies
transits might affect the outcome of their analysis and conclusions,
particularly with respect to orbital decay and apsidal precession. Then, in
order to warrant confident results, I would like to see the same analysis but
without including partial transits or with visible spot-crossing events on
them.

* USE: best-judgement.
* ENSURE: do not include partial transits.
* OMITTING THE ONES WITH VISIBLE SPOT-CROSSINGS: meh. Maybe focus on the ones
  with excess reisduals during partial phases.

2) As mentioned in 1), another possible interpretation for explaining the
deviation from a linear ephemeris of the TESS mid-transit times could be the
presence of anomalies in the light curves due to stellar activity. It has been
well established that WASP-4 is an active star with a rotation period (P) in
between 20-40 days (P ~ 22 days and P ~ 34 days were determined by
Sanchis-Ojeda et al. 2011 and Hoyer et al. 2013, respectively), which is
expected for a main-sequence G7 star. Given that the TESS mid-transits span
around 30 days, wouldn't it be possible that these measurements be affected by
the existence of unseen stellar spots? Regarding this point, I would like to
see an extra paragraph in the Section "Interpretation" with a discussion about
this scenario.

* ONE IDEA: consider ADDING the spots (e.g., from the hubble data, at the
  observed amplitude). Run it through the lightcurves, over a full transit
  phase. QUANITFY: How much does the transit mid-time change?
* ALSO QUANTIFY: what is the peak-to-peak stellar variability? (Can we confirm
  the previously measured rotation periods?)
* The period is the same order of time as the observations...


-- Minor points:

0. TITLE: 

i) As it is, the title implies a very strong asseveration. It would be more
appropriate "Possible Early Arrival of WASP-4b for the TESS Mission" or
something similar. 

* Pending spot studies: no.


1. INTRODUCTION:

i) Please, include here a reference for TESS.

* Fine


2. NEW TRANSITS AND SYSTEM PARAMETERS:

Section 2.1:

i) It could be informative to provide a reference for the "Deep Space Network". 

ii) barycentric Julian date --> Barycentric Julian Date

iii) For the casual reader, it would be important to briefly specify what
"Threshold Crossing Events" means, and what the flags "Reaction Wheel
Desaturation Event" and "Manual Exclude" represent. Footnotes including this
information would be appropriate. Also, could the authors describe what a
"Presearch Data Conditioning" lightcurve is?

iv) It might be worthwhile to mention what "ramp-like systematic effects" are
and also include a reference.

v) It would be important to include in this section an explanation of how
photometric data-point errors are estimated.


Section 2.2:

i) Could the authors explicitly indicate, in the first paragraph, the number of
transits observed by TESS finally used to create the phase-folded light curve?
Furthermore, the manuscript would be more readable if the main text refers
first to Figure 1 instead of Figure 2. 

ii) The authors say that the phase-folded lightcurve was fitted by using the
implementation of Kreidberg (2015) of the analytic model of Mandel & Agol
(2002). Is this referring to the BATMAN code? If it is so, It would be good to
mention the code's name in the text. Also, I would appreciate if, in the main
text, the authors clarify from which source are the values used as initial
photometric parameters (planet to star radius ratio, orbital distance to
stellar radius ratio, inclination, etc). On the other hand, for highlighting
the results obtained with TESS data, it would be important to visualize all the
transit parameters derived from section 2.2 in an independent table.
Furthermore, to see the agreement between the transit parameters reported in
previous studies and those resulting from this work, it would be useful to
present together the values obtained in both cases.

* Can say no to the latter.

iii) In the caption of Figure 2, it would be important to specify which is the
bin size used to determine the yellow points. Furthermore, in Figure 2, the
photometric error of the unbinned data-points should be included. 

* add a representative error bar, bottom right

iv) To estimate transit times for each individual lightcurve, did the authors
use the same code as for the phase-folded light curve? In this case, how were
the mid-transit times' uncertainties determined?

v) Is χ^2=9.2 the reduced chi-square? If it is so, It should be clarified by
using a different symbol or by adding a sub-index, for example. Please, fix
this in the rest of the manuscript when necessary. 

vi) χ^2 = 16 {plus minus} 5.7 --> χ^2 = 9.2 {plus minus} 5.7

vii) The note at the end of Table 2 explains what the parameter sigmat0
represents, but it's not clear which is its relation with the mid-transit
times' measurements presented in the same table. 


Section 2.3:

i) The authors should include the references for each of the mentioned catalogs
and also for the Yonsei Yale isochrones.

ii) How did the authors estimate the errors of the stellar and planet
parameters?

3. TIMING ANALYSIS 

Section 3.1:

i) The sentence "..Since those data points carry significant weight in the
analysis, we checked that the timestamps in their data represent mid-exposure
times, that the barycentric correction was performed correctly, and that the
time system of the final results was BJD(TDB).." is confusing, because seems to
imply that these checks were only performed on the Huitson et al. mid-transit
times and not in all the literature mid-transit times. It would be
recommendable to clarify this point.

* This is what we meant.
* We can't go this deep for all of them.

ii) Could the authors specify what is the meaning of each of the variables in
Equation (1)?

Section 3.2:

i) How did you fit the mid times of the preTESS measurements? Did you use a
weighted least-square fit? 

* Yes (be sure in text)

ii) Figure 3:
I would recommend changing the "title" indicated in bold font in the caption,
by a more explicit sentence about what is shown in the plot. To give an
example, a possibility could be "Observed minus predicted mid-transit times". 
Also: ii-1) In the legends of both panels, could the authors specify which is
the bin size of the TESS light curves? (Please, fix this in all the
manuscript).
ii-2) "The red band shows the average deviation of the TESS transits,..." -->
"The red band shows the average deviation of the TESS transits {plus
minus}1σ,..." 

iii) It would be important to introduce references for equations (4) and (5).
Also, for the casual reader, It might be informative to give a brief
explanation of what sidereal and anomalistic periods are.

iv) Figure 4: In the caption, could the authors explicitly indicate what the
plot shows in each of its panels (top and bottom)?

v) Similar to i) How did you fit the mid-transit times and occultations shown
in Figure 4?

vi) In the caption of Table 4, please be more explicit, "Best-fit model
parameters" of what?

vii) Given that the mid-transit times values used in this work are taken from
different authors with different methodologies to perform the fitting and
detrending of the light curves, could the authors mention how this could affect
their results?

* We are trusting that people fit transits.
* (Maybe cite some of the Espinoza studies about detailed transit fitting
  systematics)

4. INTERPRETATION

Sectio 4.1:

i) First line: The word "caused" is repeated twice.

ii) In the caption of Figure 5 should be indicated what open circles represent. 

iii) The characteristic timescale value calculated in equation (13), is it
computed by considering a theoretical dP/dt value or from the one estimated
through the observations?

iv) The authors mention that there are about 20 Hot Jupiters for which the
theoretical timescale is shorter, where are the timescale values obtained from?
Are they estimated from equation (13)? If this is the case, how do the
theoretical dP/dts are computed?

v) In the top panels of Figures 4 and 6, the orbital decay model evolution
shows that at the beginning the O-C values increase until, at some point, they
reach a maximum and after that, they start decreasing. What is the physical
explanation for that behavior? If the orbital period is diminishing, wouldn't
it be expected to see only a decreasing in the O-C values? Why the O-C values
would increase at these first epochs? 

Section 4.2:

i) It might be informative to explicitly include the equation (14) of Ragozzine
& Wolf (2009) to see of which parameters is depending on.

ii) Similar to Figure 3, I would recommend changing the title indicated in bold
font in Figure 6, by a more explicit sentence about what is shown in the plot.
For eample "Different apsidal precession and orbital decay models for the O-C
values" or something like that.

iii) Mb is indicated as the mass of the hypothetical planet WASP-4c, however,
the Mb symbol is not present in equation (19).

iv) Why do the authors assume k2b = 0.6 for the Love number? Is this value
randomly chosen? 

v) Would it be possible to introduce a definition of the reduced mass presented
in equation 21? Also, could the authors specify which values they used for L,
Mc, and Rc and provide references?


Section Appendix:

i) "WASP-4 timing anomaly" --> "WASP-4b timing anomaly"

> Corrected.

ii) In the caption of Figure 7: "with standard deviation (σpredicted)" -->
"with standard deviation (σpre-TESS)"

> Corrected, thank you!
