A Note can be submitted to the Editorial Office in LaTeX (preferably with the
RNAAS style option in AASTeX v6.2 and template package ), MS/Word, or prepared
and submitted through the Overleaf online collaborative editor. Research Notes
are free to read and currently carry no author publication charges.

Submissions to RNAAS should be brief communications — 1,000 words or fewer,
with no more than a single figure or table (but not both) — and should be
written in a style similar to that of a traditional journal article, including
references, where appropriate, but not including an abstract.

The 1,000 word count limit includes title, headers, captions, and references.
Easy though not entirely full proof ways to count the number of words in a
Research Note are to use the texcount utility installed with most LaTeX
installations, or by copying the words into MS/Word and using ”Word Count”
under the Tool tab. The call texcount -v3 -merge -incbib -dir -sub=none -utf8
-sum rnaas.tex includes the options to pick up references and provides a nice
color-coded visual summary of which words are included; this produces a result
consistent with the Overleaf word count. Please note that the original version
of these instructions failed to add the -sum option for texcount, leading to
inaccurate estimates of the total words in a TeX file. Also note that this
texcount call includes authors and affiliations and often poorly parses
equations. Thus, the AAS Editorial office’s word count is the final arbiter of
the limit.

Figures, Tables, & Data As mentioned above, a Research Note should include no
more than a single figure or table (but not both), where appropriate. While
table contents do not count against the word count of a Note, caption text
will. The Note figure can be submitted in EPS, PDF, WMF, TIFF, GIF, JPEG, or
BMP formats. Including the data behind the figure in a Note is encouraged, and
the submitted data will be provided as a link in the published Note. Long
tables should only show the first 5 – 10 data lines with the rest available in
the machine readable format.

References, Facilities, & Code Acknowledge people, facilities, and software in
a Note but remember that these count against your 1000 word limit. Citations to
the literature or to code should follow standard AAS Journal recommendations.

....

Review Unlike the other journals in the AAS portfolio, RNAAS publications are
not peer reviewed; they are, however, reviewed by an editor for appropriateness
and format before publication. If accepted, RNAAS submissions are typically
published within 72 hours of manuscript receipt. Each RNAAS is issued a DOI and
indexed by ADS to create a long-term, citable record of work.

